# Module 1.3

## Did you know...
* if you pass in a fourth argument to the fill() function, the alpha (transparency) of a color can be altered. 0 is fully tranparent, 255 is fully opaque
* the random(start, end) function gives us a random number betwen the starting value and the ending value. The value is a float (decimal number) and occasionally needs to be converted to an integer for proper usage.

## Variables
* What are variables? Think of them as containers for a value.
* Variables must be declared ahead of time
* Variables must have a "type" (does not apply to javascript)
* For now, we are only interested in a few priitive data types: *boolean, integer, float, and string* [see all data types here](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/tutorial/java/nutsandbolts/datatypes.html)
* The type is written first, followed by the variable name during declaration.
* Declaring variables can happen anywhere in your code, but a good starting point is at the top of your script before the setup function
* Variables are assigned values using the equal "=" sign. 
* Assignment of a value to a variable can occur anywhere in the script and reassignment is possible.
* *boolean* - can be either "true" or "false"
* *int* - is a whole number integer that can be positive or negative
* *float* - is a number with a decimal point (called a floating point number, hence the name *float*)
* *String* - (with a capital S) is a sequence of characters. Must be in double quotes " ".  
* practice: create a bullsey/target using a variable for offset

## When to Use Variables
* Variables help simplify code that is used repeatedly
* identify values that you you seem to be writing over and over again. A variable might be helpful in such a case. Replace the repeated value with a single variable. Updating the variable in a single location will update all of the values where the variable is used, simplifying your code. 
* Variables can change over time or according to a math formula, therefore you can use variables in places where you require dynamic values. 
* Variables are subject to "scope" - a variable declared within a function will only be available within that function. A variable declared out in the open will be available globally to all functions


## Mouse Position
* mouse position variables mouseX and mouseY are built-in variables that do require declaration. They are always made avaialble by processing
* mouseX is the value of the mouse cursor along the x-axis of the canvas window. This value is a range between 0 and width. (width is determined by tour size() function
* mouseY is the value of the mouse cursor along the y-axis of the canvas window. This value is a range between 0 and height. (height is determined by tour size() function
* The mouseX and mouseY variables can be used in may creative ways, such as changing a shape size based on distance to the mouse, or modifying color values in the same way.
* Also available are the pmouseX and pmouseY, which hold the value of the mouse position during the *previous* frame.

## Mouse Events
* Like mouse position, processing also makes available to us a function that listens for mouse events such as clicks, button presses and releases, and which mouse button was pressed. These events are called listeners because they only trigger when the event occurs. mousePressed(){ } and mouseReleased(){  } are two such functions
* The code that you write within the mouse event listener functions will run only when that event is triggered
* *void mousePressed(){  }* - triggers once when a mouse button is pressed down
* *void mouseReleased(){  }* - triggers once when a mouse button is released
* *void mouseClicked(){  }* - triggers once when a mouse button is clicked (pressed and released). 
* The above listener functions are written on their own outside of the setup and draw functions. 

## Keyboard Events
* Similar to mouse events, keyboard events are listener functions that trigger when certain keyboard events (such as pressing the space bar or any determined key) occur. The function to serve as the listener is keyPressed(){  }
* The code that you write within the keyPressed(){   } event listener function will run only when that event is triggered
* *void keyPressed(){   }* - triggers once when a key on the keyboard is pressed
* The "key" variable (a system variable that holds the value of the most recent key typed) can be used within the keyPressed(){   } function for conditional testing. More on this in a future lesson.

## Using println()
* println() is a usefule function for looking inside of variables.
* The output of println() is visible in the console, which is located in the lower area of the sketch code window.
* text can be included in the println() function by enclosing the text in double quotes like this: println("example text");
* To include both text and a number from a variable, the two elements must be joined together, colled *concatination*. The concatonation operator in Java and Javascript is the plus sign +. 
* example: println("my age is "+age);
* example: println("I turn "+age+" years old today");


