# Module 2.1

## Boolean used as a toggle
* A boolean value can be only two things: true or false.
* Booleans serve a variety of purposes in programming, one popular use is as a toggle switch (think light switch). When toggle is true, do something, when toggle is false, do something else. 
* To do this, we use an if statement to check the boolean's condition and then reverse its value to the opposite.
* Example:
```
boolean toggle_switch = false; // declare and initialize it with false

//toggle the boolean on mouse click
void mousePressed(){
  if(toggle_switch == false){
    toggle_switch = true;  //set the value to the opposite of what it just was
  } else if(toggle_switch == true){
    toggle_switch = false; //set the value to the opposite of what it just was
  }
}
```

## Using random()
* random returns a float value between the starting and ending arguments. 
* For example, random(0,100) returns a decimal number between (and including) 0 and up to (but no including) 100... so 0, 52.148, or even 99.99999 are possibilities, but 100.00 is not a possibility because the second number is the upper non-inlcusive limit of the range.
* Random also has a few shortcuts `random() //like this with no arguments` will return a decimal number between 0 and 1 
* If you just give random a single argument like this `random(200)` it will return a decimal between 0 and the given argument value (200 in this case)
* Since random returns a float and sometimes we need a whole number to put into an int variable, we need to convert the output of random to an int by rounding:
* the `floor()` function rounds the number down, and the `ceil()` rounds the number up (ceil like ceiling)
* puting the random() function inside of an `int()` function is another way to convert it to a whole number

## PImage
* the PImage data type declates a variable that holds an image. `PImage my_image;`
* after declaring the variable as a PImage, the actual image needs to be loaded into it using the `loadImage()` function
```
PImage my_image;
void setup(){
  my_image = loadImage("horse.png");
}
```
* Once loaded, the variable holds the image *as well as* additional information about the image such as the image height and width in pixels, etc.
* To display the image, the `image()` function is called.
* The first argument to the image() function is the PImage variable with the loaded image in it like this: `image(my_image);`
* The second and third arguments to the image() function are the x and y location of the image.
```
// draws an image in the top left corner at 0 x and 0 y
image(my_image, 0, 0);
```
* the image() function has additional optional arguments that determine the size to display the image (the width and height)
```
// draws the image sized 200 px wide and 400 heigh at the top left corner at 0 x and 0 y
image(my_image, 0, 0, 200, 400);
```
* to access information about the loaded image, use the dot syntax (.) also referred to as object method notation. For example `my_image.width` returns the with of the original image and `my_image.height` returns the height of it.

## Arrays
* an array is a data structure that holds values in slots. Arrays can hold integers, strings, boolean values, and even PImage type objects
* Arrays are declared along with the data type, and done so using the square brackets `[ ]` that indicate an array.
* Arrays need to be initialized with the total number of values that will fit into it using the `new` keyword followed by the data type and the number of "slots"
```
//lets declare an array of integer
int[] my_numbers;

// now lets initialze the array with 20 slots inside the setup() function
void setup(){
  size(200,200);
  my_numbers = new int[20];
}
```
* Arrays begin counting at 0 therefore the last item in an array of length n will have an index of n-1
* To add values into the array, assign the value to each slot individually like so: `my_numbers[0] = 25` and `my_numbers[1] = 19` etc.
* If you try to fill the array beyond the capacity of slots, then an error will be thrown and the sketch will "crash"
* accessing the values stored in an array is done using the index of the slot desired inside of square brackets like this: `my_numbers[7] //I want slot number 8`
* An important feature of the array is that a variable can be used as the slot number, therefore thingsl ike counters and random values can be used to access the items in the array.



# Assignment: Pick one of the three code sketches below, dig some pictures up from the internet and plug them into the sketch, and explore.


## Cat Toggle 
* The following three code sketches require the jpg or png image files to be located in the data folder of your sketch
```
PImage cat;
boolean toggle = false;


void setup(){
  size(600,600);
  cat = loadImage("cat.jpg");
}

void draw(){
  //background(255);
  
  if(toggle == true){
    image(cat, mouseX-(cat.width/2),mouseY-(cat.height/2));
  }
  
}


void mousePressed(){
  if(toggle == false){
   toggle = true; 
  } else if(toggle == true){
   toggle = false; 
  }
}
```

*********

## Cats that get smaller with the distance (mouseY value)
```
PImage cat0;
PImage cat1;
PImage cat2;

int i = 0;


void setup(){
  size(600,600);
  cat0 = loadImage("orange_boy.png");
  cat1 = loadImage("grey_cat.png");
  cat2 = loadImage("grey_tabby.png");
}

void draw(){
  //background(255);
  
    //image(cat0, random(-cat0.width, width), random(-cat0.height,height));
    //image(cat1, random(0, width), random(0,height));
    //image(cat2, random(0, width), random(0,height));

}


void mousePressed(){
  i = floor(random(0,3));
  
  if(i == 0){
    image(cat0, mouseX, mouseY, mouseY*0.75, mouseY);
  }
  
  if(i== 1){
    image(cat1, mouseX, mouseY, mouseY*0.75, mouseY);
  }
  
  if(i == 2){
    image(cat2, mouseX, mouseY, mouseY*0.75, mouseY);
  }
  
  println(i);
}
```

*********** 

## Manually Iterating Through an Array
```
PImage[] cats;
int i = 0;

void setup(){
  size(600,600);
  cats = new PImage[5];
  
  cats[0] = loadImage("orange_boy.png");
  cats[1] = loadImage("grey_cat.png");
  cats[2] = loadImage("grey_tabby.png");
  cats[3] = loadImage("longhair_cat.png");
  cats[4] = loadImage("orange_tabby.png");
  
}

void draw(){
  //background(255);
}

void mousePressed(){
  i++;
  
  if(i>=5){
    i=0;
  }
  
  image(cats[i], 0,0);
}
```

